Title: AWS Customer Agreement

URL Source: https://aws.amazon.com/agreement/

Published Time: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 18:10:22 GMT

Markdown Content:
11.1 Assignment. You will not assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement or any of your rights and obligations under this Agreement, without our prior written consent. Any assignment or transfer in violation of this Section 11.1 will be void. We may assign this Agreement without your consent (a) in connection with a merger, acquisition or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or (b) to any affiliate or as part of a corporate reorganization; and effective upon such assignment, the assignee is deemed substituted for AWS as a party to this Agreement and AWS is fully released from all of its obligations and duties to perform under this Agreement. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns.

11.2 Entire Agreement. This Agreement incorporates the Policies by reference and is the entire agreement between you and us regarding the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement supersedes all prior or contemporaneous representations, understandings, agreements, or communications between you and us, whether written or verbal, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement (but does not supersede prior commitments to purchase Services such as Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances). None of the parties will be bound by any term, condition or other provision that is different from or in addition to the provisions of this Agreement (whether or not it would materially alter this Agreement) including for example, any term, condition or other provision (a) submitted by you in any order, receipt, acceptance, confirmation, correspondence or other document, (b) related to any online registration, response to any Request for Bid, Request for Proposal, Request for Information, or other questionnaire, or (c) related to any invoicing process that you submit or require us to complete. If the terms of this document are inconsistent with the terms contained in any Policy, the terms contained in this document will control, except that the Service Terms will control over this document.

11.3 Force Majeure. Except for payment obligations, neither party nor any of their affiliates will be liable for any delay or failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement where the delay or failure results from any cause beyond its reasonable control, including acts of God, labor disputes or other industrial disturbances, electrical or power outages, utilities or other telecommunications failures, earthquake, storms or other elements of nature, blockages, embargoes, riots, acts or orders of government, acts of terrorism, or war.

11.4 Governing Law. The Governing Laws, without reference to conflict of law rules, govern this Agreement and any dispute of any sort that might arise between you and us. The United Nations Convention for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to this Agreement.

11.5 Disputes. Any dispute or claim relating in any way to your use of the Services, or to any products or services sold or distributed by AWS will be adjudicated in the Governing Courts, and you consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the Governing Courts, subject to the additional provisions below.

(a) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services, Inc., Amazon Web Services Canada, Inc., Amazon Web Services Korea LLC, Amazon Web Services Singapore Private Limited or PT Amazon Web Services Indonesia, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(a) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court, except that either party may elect to proceed in small claims court if your claims qualify. The Federal Arbitration Act and federal arbitration law apply to this Agreement, except that if Amazon Web Services Canada, Inc. is the applicable AWS Contracting Party the Ontario Arbitration Act will apply to this Agreement. There is no judge or jury in arbitration, and court review of an arbitration award is limited. However, an arbitrator can award the same damages and relief as a court (including injunctive and declaratory relief or statutory damages), and must follow the terms of this Agreement as a court would. Before you may begin an arbitration proceeding, you must send a letter notifying us of your intent to pursue arbitration and describing your claim to our registered agent Corporation Service Company, 300 Deschutes Way SW, Suite 304, Tumwater, WA 98501. The arbitration will be conducted by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its commercial rules, which are available at www.adr.org or by calling 1-800-778-7879. Payment of filing, administration and arbitrator fees will be governed by the AAA commercial fee schedule. We and you agree that any dispute resolution proceedings will be conducted only on an individual basis and not in a class, consolidated or representative action. We and you further agree that the underlying award in arbitration may be appealed pursuant to the AAA’s Optional Appellate Arbitration Rules. If for any reason a claim proceeds in court rather than in arbitration we and you waive any right to a jury trial. Notwithstanding the foregoing we and you both agree that you or we may bring suit in court to enjoin infringement or other misuse of intellectual property rights.

(b) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services South Africa Proprietary Limited, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(b) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the then-applicable rules of the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa, and judgment on the arbitral award must be entered in the Governing Court. The Arbitration Act, No. 42 of 1965 applies to this Agreement. The arbitration will take place in Johannesburg. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties.

**(c) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon AWS Serviços Brasil Ltda., the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(c) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court, in accordance with the then-applicable Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in the City of São Paulo, State of São Paulo, Brazil. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information. The Governing Courts will have exclusive jurisdiction for the sole purposes of (i) ensuring the commencement of the arbitral proceedings; and (ii) granting conservatory and interim measures prior to the constitution of the arbitral tribunal.**

(d) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Australia Pty Ltd, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(d) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration administered by the Australian Center for International Commercial Arbitration (“ACICA”) in accordance with the then-applicable ACICA Arbitration Rules, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in Sydney, Australia. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.

(e) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services New Zealand Limited, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(e) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration administered by the New Zealand Dispute Resolution Centre (“NZDRC”) in accordance with the then-applicable Arbitration Rules of NZDRC, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in Auckland, New Zealand. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.

(f) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Registration No. 201501028710 (1154031-W)), the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(f) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration administered by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”) in accordance with the then-applicable Arbitration Rules of SIAC, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in Singapore. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.

(g) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is AWS India, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(g) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court. Arbitration will be conducted by a panel consisting of three (3) arbitrators, with one (1) nominated by each party and the third chosen by the two (2) arbitrators so nominated. The decision and award will be determined by the majority of the panels and shall be final and binding upon the parties. The arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 of India, as may be in force from time to time. The arbitration proceedings will be conducted in English, and the seat of the arbitration will be New Delhi. The cost of the arbitration, including fees and expenses of the arbitrator, shall be shared equally by the parties, unless the award otherwise provides. The courts at New Delhi shall have the exclusive jurisdiction for all arbitral applications. The Parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any party may seek injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction for any actual or alleged infringement of such party’s, its affiliates’ or any third party’s intellectual property or other proprietary rights.

(h) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is AWS Turkey Pazarlama Teknoloji ve Danışmanlık Hizmetleri Limited Şirketi, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(h) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration administered by the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration (the “ICC Court”) in accordance with the then-applicable arbitration rules (the “ICC Rules”).The arbitration proceedings will be conducted in English, and the seat of arbitration will be Zurich. There will be three arbitrators. Each party will appoint one arbitrator in accordance with the ICC Rules. Within 30 days of the appointment of the co-arbitrators, the two appointed arbitrators will appoint the third arbitrator as the president of the arbitral tribunal. If the twoappointed arbitrators fail to appoint a third arbitrator as the president within such 30 day period, then the ICC Court will appoint the president. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.

(i) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Taiwan Limited, the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(i) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by arbitration administered by the Chinese Arbitration Association, Taipei (“**CAA**”) in accordance with the then-applicable Arbitration Rules of CAA, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in Taipei,Taiwan. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any, will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The arbitration proceedings will be conducted in English. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.

(j) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., the parties agree that the provisions of this Section 11.5(j) will apply. Disputes will be resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court, in accordance with the then-applicable Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, and judgment on the arbitral award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. The arbitration will take place in Mexico City, Mexico. There will be three arbitrators. The fees and expenses of the arbitrators and the administering authority, if any,will be paid in equal proportion by the parties. The parties agree that the existence of and information relating to any such arbitration proceedings will not be disclosed by either party and will constitute confidential information.The Governing Courts will have exclusive jurisdiction for the sole purposes of (i) ensuring the commencement of the arbitral proceedings; and (ii) granting conservatory and interim measures prior to the constitution of the arbitral tribunal.

11.6 Trade Compliance. In connection with this Agreement, each party will comply with all applicable import, re-import, sanctions, anti-boycott, export, and re-export control laws and regulations, including all such laws and regulations that apply to a U.S. company, such as the Export Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and economic sanctions programs implemented by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For clarity, you are solely responsible for compliance related to the manner in which you choose to use the Services or AWS Content, including your transfer and processing of Your Content, the provision of Your Content to End Users, and the AWS region in which any of the foregoing occur. You represent and warrant that you and your financial institutions, or any party that owns or controls you or your financial institutions, are not subject to sanctions or otherwise designated on any list of prohibited or restricted parties, including but not limited to the lists maintained by the United Nations Security Council, the U.S. Government (e.g., the Specially Designated Nationals List and Foreign Sanctions Evaders List of the U.S. Department of Treasury, and the Entity List of the U.S. Department of Commerce), the European Union or its Member States, or other applicable government authority.

11.7 Independent Contractors; Non-Exclusive Rights. We and you are independent contractors, and this Agreement will not be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, agency, or employment relationship. Neither party, nor any of their respective affiliates, is an agent of the other for any purpose or has the authority to bind the other. Both parties reserve the right (a) to develop or have developed for it products, services, concepts, systems, or techniques that are similar to or compete with the products, services, concepts, systems, or techniques developed or contemplated by the other party, and (b) to assist third party developers or systems integrators who may offer products or services which compete with the other party’s products or services.

11.8 Language. All communications and notices made or given pursuant to this Agreement must be in the English language. If we provide a translation of the English language version of this Agreement, the English language version of the Agreement will control if there is any conflict.

11.9 Confidentiality and Publicity. You may use AWS Confidential Information only in connection with your use of the Services or AWS Content as permitted under this Agreement. You will not disclose AWS Confidential Information during the Term or at any time during the 5-year period following the end of the Term. You will take all reasonable measures to avoid disclosure, dissemination or unauthorized use of AWS Confidential Information, including, at a minimum, those measures you take to protect your own confidential information of a similar nature. You will not issue any press release or make any other public communication with respect to this Agreement or your use of the Services or AWS Content.

11.10 Notice.

(a) To You. We may provide any notice to you under this Agreement by:

(i) posting a notice on the AWS Site; or

(ii) sending a message to the email address then associated with your account.

Notices we provide by posting on the AWS Site will be effective upon posting and notices we provide by email will be effective when we send the email. It is your responsibility to keep your email address current. You will be deemed to have received any email sent to the email address then associated with your account when we send the email, whether or not you actually receive the email.

(b) To Us. To give us notice under this Agreement, you must contact AWS by facsimile transmission or personal delivery, overnight courier or registered or certified mail to the facsimile number or mailing address, as applicable, listed for the applicable AWS Contracting Party in Section 12 below. We may update the facsimile number or address for notices to us by posting a notice on the AWS Site. Notices provided by personal delivery will be effective immediately. Notices provided by facsimile transmission or overnight courier will be effective one business day after they are sent. Notices provided registered or certified mail will be effective three business days after they are sent.

11.11 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. Except as set forth in Section 7, this Agreement does not create any third-party beneficiary rights in any individual or entity that is not a party to this Agreement.

11.12 U.S. Government Rights. The Services and AWS Content are provided to the U.S. Government as “commercial services,” “commercial computer software,” “commercial computer software documentation,” and “technical data” with the same rights and restrictions generally applicable to the Services and AWS Content. If you are using the Services and AWS Content on behalf of the U.S. Government and these terms fail to meet the U.S. Government’s needs or are inconsistent in any respect with federal law, you will immediately discontinue your use of the Services and AWS Content. The terms “commercial service” “commercial computer software,” “commercial computer software documentation,” and “technical data” are defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.

11.13 No Waivers. The failure by us to enforce any provision of this Agreement will not constitute a present or future waiver of such provision nor limit our right to enforce such provision at a later time. All waivers by us must be in writing to be effective.

11.14 Severability. If any portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining portions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect. Any invalid or unenforceable portions will be interpreted to effect and intent of the original portion. If such construction is not possible, the invalid or unenforceable portion will be severed from this Agreement but the rest of the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

11.15 Account Country Specific Terms. You agree to the following modifications to the Agreement that apply to your AWS Contracting Party as described below:

(a) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Australia Pty Ltd, the parties agree as follows:

(i) If the Services are subject to any statutory guarantees under the Australian Competition and Consumer Act 2010, then to the extent that any part of this Agreement is unenforceable under such Act, you agree that a fair and reasonable remedy to you will be limited to, at our election, either: (i) supplying the Services again; or (ii) paying for the cost of having the Services supplied again.

(ii) If this Agreement is a “consumer contract” or “small business contract” as defined in the Australian Competition and Consumer Act 2010:

a. Section 7.1 will not apply to the extent the applicable Losses or damages are caused by AWS’s gross negligence or criminal misconduct. For these purposes, “gross negligence” means an act or omission by an employee who has authority to bind AWS that is negligent and a wilful and significant disregard of an obvious and material risk.

b. If we are required to give prior notice under Section 1.5 or Section 3, we will give you this notice by email or a reasonably substitutable alternative means. If we modify this Agreement under Section 10 in a way that is materially adverse to you (as reasonably determined by AWS), we will give you at least 30 days’ prior notice of the modification by email or a reasonably substitutable alternative means.

(b) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Japan G.K., the parties agree as follows:

(i) The following sentence is added at the end of Section 6.5 (Suggestions):

“The foregoing assignment includes the assignment of the rights provided under Article 27 (Rights of Translation, Adaptation, etc.) and Article 28 (Right of the Original Author in the Exploitation of a Derivative Work) of the Copyright Act of Japan, and you agree not to exercise your moral rights against us, our affiliates or persons who use the Suggestions through the consent of us or our affiliates.”

(ii) The following sentences are added at the end of Section 9 (Limitation of Liability):

“THE DISCLAIMER OR THE DAMAGES CAP IN THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE APPLIED TO DAMAGES CAUSED BY EITHER PARTY’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT IF SUCH DISCLAIMER OR THE DAMAGES CAP ARE DEEMED AGAINST PUBLIC POLICY UNDER ARTICLE 90 OF THE CIVIL CODE. IN THAT EVENT, THE SCOPE OF THE DISCLAIMER SHALL BE NARROWLY CONSTRUED IN SUCH MANNER AND THE DAMAGES CAP MAY BE INCREASED BY SUCH MINIMUM AMOUNT SO THAT THE DISCLAIMER OR THE DAMAGES CAP HEREUNDER WOULD NOT BE DEEMED AGAINST PUBLIC POLICY UNDER ARTICLE 90 OF THE CIVIL CODE.”

(c) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is AWS Turkey Pazarlama Teknoloji ve Danışmanlık Hizmetleri Limited Şirketi, the parties agree as follows:

(i) The following sentence is added at the end of Section 3.2 (Taxes):

“If we are required to pay any stamp tax in relation to this Agreement or any other document related to this Agreement, we may charge you and you will pay us 50% of the amounts of any stamp tax paid by us.”

(d) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., the parties agree as follows:

Section 9.1 (Liability Disclaimers) is deleted and replaced with the following:

“9.1 Liability Disclaimers. EXCEPT FOR PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION 7, NEITHER AWS NOR YOU, NOR ANY OF THEIR AFFILIATES OR LICENSORS, WILL HAVE LIABILITY TO THE OTHER UNDER ANY CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY, EVEN IF A PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LIABILITY, FOR (A) INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, (B) THE VALUE OF YOUR CONTENT, (C) LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUES, CUSTOMERS, OPPORTUNITIES, OR GOODWILL, OR (D) UNAVAILABILITY OF THE SERVICES OR AWS CONTENT (THIS DOES NOT LIMIT ANY SERVICE CREDITS UNDER SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS).”

(e) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services EMEA SARL, and your Account Country is located within the European Union, the parties agree as follows:

Section 7.1 (Indemnification; General) will not apply to the extent the applicable Losses or damages are caused by AWS’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, none of the disclaimers or damage caps set forth in Section 9 (Limitations of Liability) will exclude or limit either party’s liability for such party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

(f) If the applicable AWS Contracting Party is Amazon Web Services India Private Limited ("AWS India") (formerly known as Amazon Internet Services Private Limited), the parties agree as follows:

Section 3.2 (Taxes) is deleted and replaced with the following:

“3.2 Taxes. You acknowledge that AWS India may display the applicable fees and charges for the Services on the Site in USD (or such other currency as AWS India may deem fit). However, AWS India will invoice you in INR calculated and converted in accordance with the conversion rate determined by us on the date of invoice ("INR Equivalent Fees"). You will only be liable to pay the INR Equivalent Fees indicated in each invoice.

We will invoice you from our registered office at the address of your establishment (as registered with the tax authorities, if applicable) receiving the Services in accordance with the applicable indirect tax laws.

All fees and charges payable under this Agreement will be exclusive of applicable national, state or local indirect taxes ("Taxes") that AWS India is legally obligated to charge under applicable law. For the purpose of this clause, local indirect taxes include Goods and Services Tax (“GST”), which includes the Central Goods and Services Tax ("CGST"), the State Goods and Services Tax ("SGST"), the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax ("UGST"), the Integrated Goods and Services Tax ("IGST") as may be applicable. The Taxes charged by AWS India will be stated in the invoice pursuant to applicable laws. AWS India may charge and you will pay any applicable Taxes, which are stated separately on the invoice. As per the statutory requirement under GST, you will provide all necessary information such as the correct GST registered address, legal name and GSTIN ("GST Information") in order for AWS India to issue correct GST invoices as per the applicable legal requirements. If you are a GST-registered entity in India, you must notify AWS India by contacting AWS Customer Support before rejecting an incorrect invoice or credit note on the Invoice Management System (IMS). You agree you will not reject any invoice or credit note that is correct. AWS India will determine the place of supply for the Services based on the GST Information provided by you and accordingly, charge GST (CGST and SGST/UTGST or IGST) on its invoice. Any withholding taxes that may be applicable to the fees and charges payable to us are for our account. You will pay the fees and charges in our invoice in full (gross) without applying any withholding taxes. If you separately deposit applicable withholding taxes on such fees and charges to the applicable government treasury and issue us a withholding tax certificate evidencing such deposit, following receipt of the withholding tax certificate in original form, we will reimburse to you an amount equal to the taxes that are evidenced as deposited.”
